# machine-learning-projects
  The chosen dataset consists in measurements recorded from 16 gas sensors, which were used to identify 6 different types of gases. The dataset’s source is https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ website which provides this data only for research purposes and there is given an explanation about where the values come from. The dataset has 13910 rows and 130 columns and is split up in 10 batches to give the possibility to choose fewer rows and analyze the performance of the model, but I had access only to 12325 rows.										The first column from the dataset has values from 1 to 6 and it represents the gas classes, being given the following instructions: 1 is Ethanol, 2 is Ethylene, 3 is Ammonia, 4 is Acetaldehyde, 5 is Acetone, 6 is Toluene. [1] The second column presents the concentrations of gas used for the measurement and the next 128 columns are the features which can help to determine the gas type. Taking into consideration that there are 16 gas sensors and each of them has 8 features, the result will be 16 x 8=128 features for every measurement. The 8 features have a template: DR_j, |DR|_j,  EMAi0.001_j, EMAi0.01_j, EMAi0.1_j, EMAd0.001_j, EMAd0.01_j, EMAd0.1_j, where j is from 1 to 16.  									There are two types of features in the dataset. The first has the steady features and the second one has the dynamic ones, where are included the increasing and the decreasing measurements. [1] DR_j is the “steady state feature” measured at the k moment and calculated by the formula [2]: DR= max(r(k)) – min(r(k)), where r(k) is the sensor resistance and min(r(k)) is the baseline. The |DR|_j is just the DR_j normalized, which means [2]: |DR|
=(max(r(k)) – min(r(k)))/min(r(k)). The second type of features are calculated with econometric transformations, to provide real numbers for the dataset. This is possible if the y[k] value is estimated like this [2]: y[k] = (1-Alfa) y[k-1]+Alfa(R[k]-R[k-1]). The 0.1 value in EMAi0.1_j or in EMAd0.1_j stands for the Alfa value from the formula. The y[k] value is calculated based on different values for Alfa: 0.1, 0.01, 0.001 and it is applied for calculating the increasing or decreasing values. [1]	


The unsupervised machine learning methods that I have chosen are: k-Means and DBSCAN. To analyze the results easier, I have used PCA transformation for data. 
